 BACKGROUND: The high proportion of people with overweight and obesity has become a worldwide problem in recent decades, mainly due to health consequences, such as cardiovascular diseases, neoplasia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Regarding effective countermeasures, the digitization of health services offers numerous potentials, which, however, have not yet been sufficiently evaluated. Web-based health programs are becoming increasingly interactive and can provide individuals with effective long-term weight management support. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial was to evaluate the effectiveness of an interactive web-based weight loss program on anthropometric, cardiometabolic, and behavioral variables and to compare it with a noninteractive web-based weight loss program. METHODS: The randomized controlled trial included people who were aged between 18 and 65 years (mean 48.92, SD 11.17 years) and had a BMI of 27.5 to 34.9 kg/m(2) (mean 30.71, SD 2.13 kg/m(2)). Participants (n=153) were assigned to either (1) an interactive and fully automated web-based health program (intervention) or (2) a noninteractive web-based health program (control). The intervention program focused on dietary energy density and allowed for dietary documentation with appropriate feedback on energy density and nutrients. The control group only received information on weight loss and energy density, but the website did not contain interactive content. Examinations were performed at baseline (t0), at the end of the 12-week intervention (t1), and at 6 months (t2) and 12 months (t3) thereafter. The primary outcome was body weight. The secondary outcomes were cardiometabolic variables as well as dietary and physical activity behaviors. Robust linear mixed models were used to evaluate the primary and secondary outcomes. RESULTS: The intervention group showed significant improvements in anthropometric variables, such as body weight (P=.004), waist circumference (P=.002), and fat mass (P=.02), compared with the control group over the course of the study. The mean weight loss after the 12-month follow-up was 4.18 kg (4.7%) in the intervention group versus 1.29 kg (1.5%) in the control group compared with the initial weight. The results of the nutritional analysis showed that the energy density concept was significantly better implemented in the intervention group. Significant differences in cardiometabolic variables were not detected between the 2 groups. CONCLUSIONS: The interactive web-based health program was effective in reducing body weight and improving body composition in adults with overweight and obesity. However, these improvements were not associated with relevant changes in cardiometabolic variables, although it should be noted that the study population was predominantly metabolically healthy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register DRKS00020249; https://drks.de/search/en/trial/DRKS00020249. INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.3390/ijerph19031393. 