 BACKGROUND: The prevalence of uncontrolled type 2 diabetes has been increasing, and the nurse is a primary healthcare provider to patients when health professionals are scarce in the community setting. A feasible intervention delivered by nurses is necessary to fulfill patients' needs to help them achieve glycemic control. AIM: To investigate whether Thai adults with uncontrolled diabetes in community hospitals lack self-care competency and whether a nurse-led supportive education program can enhance their self-care skills, change behavior, and control HbA1C levels. METHODS: We employed a multi-community hospital cluster randomized controlled trial design. Participants were randomly selected in the experimental group (2 hospitals) and control group (2 hospitals), with 30 patients from each hospital. One hundred twenty adults with HbA1c 7-10% treated by oral glycemic medication were recruited. Using Orem's Theory as a framework, nurses implemented self-care deficit assessments and supportive-educative nursing programs into their work. Participants in the control group received usual care, and those in the experimental group underwent a nurse assessment and supportive education measures. Data were collected at baseline, with 4-week and 12-week follow-ups. Data analysis were a repeated measures ANOVA with post hoc analysis, and Independent t-test. RESULTS: One hundred three patients completed the trial (51 in the experimental group and 52 in the control group). At 12 weeks, there were statistically significant improvements in HbA1c (P < .001), fasting plasma glucose (P = .03), knowledge (P < .001), diabetes self-care agency (P < .001), diet consumption (P < .001), physical activity (P < .001), and medical adherence (P = .03) in the experimental group significantly greater than those in the control group. Also, the between-group effect sizes were 0.49 or greater. CONCLUSION: The self-care deficit assessment and supportive education program were essential to the nursing intervention that effectively improved knowledge, changed behavior, and HbA1c levels among adults with uncontrolled blood glucose. 