 BACKGROUND: Previous studies found that Jinlida granules could significantly reduce blood glucose levels and enhance the low-glucose action of metformin. However, the role of Jinlida in the standard-reaching rate of blood glucose and improving clinical symptoms has yet to be studied. We aimed to elaborate on the efficacy of Jinlida in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients who experience clinical symptoms based on secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial. METHODS: Data were analyzed from a 12-week, randomized, placebo-controlled study of Jinlida. The standard-reaching rate of blood glucose, the symptom disappearance rate, the symptom improvement rate, the efficacy of single symptoms, and the total symptom score were evaluated. The correlation between HbA1c and the improvement of clinical symptoms was analyzed. RESULTS: For 12 weeks straight, 192 T2D patients were randomly assigned to receive either Jinlida or a placebo. The treatment group showed statistically significant differences in the standard-reaching rate of HbA1c < 6.5% (p = 0.046) and 2hPG (< 10 mmol/L, 11.1 mmol/L) (p < 0.001), compared with the control group. The standard-reaching rate of HbA1c < 7% (p = 0.06) and FBG < 7.0 mmol/L (p = 0.079) were not significantly different between the treatment and control groups. Five symptoms exhibited a statistical difference in symptom disappearance rate (p < 0.05). All the symptoms exhibited a significant difference in symptom improvement rate (p < 0.05). The mean change in total symptom score from baseline to week 12 was -5.45 ± 3.98 in the treatment group and -2.38 ± 3.11 in the control group, with statistically significant differences (p < 0.001). No significant correlations were noted between symptom improvement and HbA1c after 12 weeks of continuous intervention with Jinlida granules or placebo. CONCLUSION: Jinlida granules can effectively improve the standard-reaching rate of blood glucose and clinical symptoms of T2D patients, including thirst, fatigue, increased eating with rapid hungering, polyuria, dry mouth, spontaneous sweating, night sweat, vexing heat in the chest, palms, and soles, and constipation. Jinlida granules can be used as an effective adjuvant treatment for T2D patients who experience those symptoms. 